We were talking about improvements in training
and leadership at A&M and the Cadet Corps, which we
think has been real good, and elimination of some
of the bad things and improvement of the
leadership in counseling mainly. And we think
that the discipline training is much improved
over what it was in 1945.
And this should really encourage more students to
become cadets. And the military services have
improved the profession of militarism, too.
There's no disgrace in being connected with the
military anymore like it used to be. So this has an
added impetus, but we still need to do some selling
on this cadet program. The civilian program, all
in all, we believed, while I worked here, was real
good, except for the fact that they didn't have the
organization that the cadet corps did. They were
scattered because many of them have to live
downtown. You don't have contacts with them. Many
of them were married, and they don't have time to do
student activities, participate in a lot of the
programs. But all in all, those are the kind of
people that have spent their time studying and
doing their schoolwork, and we think have
improved the scholastic proficiency of married
students as a whole. And we kept records on this,
incidentally, for a good number of years by
categories. And we found that the married
students were making better progress as students
than the single students, which is good for the
institution, too. And as a whole, these people
were better satisfied than the single students.
We tried from time to time to encourage them to
participate in the program, and some of them did.
But the thing that bothered us most was the fact
that we couldn't ever get them all together. We
couldn't get them into a cohesive unit. And even
though we had programs set up for them, they didn't
participate. like we thought they should. But we
wanted it to be a voluntary thing. And if they
didn't want to participate, for instance, in
things like the intramural program, OK. If they
didn't want to go out for athletics, if they didn't
want to work on the MSC Council,
fine. But all in all, we think they've made good
progress. And despite the fact that some of them
more scroungy clothing, and weren't quite as
meticulous about the dress. We believed that this
was a national trend, so we didn't fight it too
hard. We weren't very happy about it from time to
time. And I know Mr. Rudder wasn't. But there
were certain limitations, too.
tried to keep them as clean as we could and as
meticulous and we did this with the hope that
they'd have pride in themselves and in the
institution we think it worked up to a point and and
incidentally we think that this helped to keep
down some of the disorders that other university
campuses had
and we didn't I spent a lot of time going around
telling people that they couldn't have marches
and sit-downs and things of this sort. They wanted
to do it. Well, we discouraged it. We did what we
could, and we always policed them. I don't like to
use the word police, but we were there to see that
trouble didn't erupt. And we had plans made for
assistance if we need to call on outside police
people to come in. And we kept close watch on groups
that we thought might be subversive, like the SDS
and other organizations that were very critical
of various operations at the university, some of
which were assisted by members of the staff. And we
knew who these members of the staff were and
kept institutional executives informed of this.
We improved the police operation and we think that
campus security operations on Texas A&M campus
are as good as you'll find in most institutions and
the men are now getting some training.
This is required training and we've changed the
attitude of the operation. I don't know whether
you keep good men all the time or not, because this
is a real problem. The time you get a good group
trained, they get better jobs in other
institutions. But they have a good program, and
they've built a lot of good parking places for
cars. Not enough, but as much as they have money
for, and they've changed the system of
registration, and they're spending a lot of time
with regular police work. We have a remarkably low
crime rate on Texas A&M campus. According to
people in other agencies,
we believe that it's much less than in most
educational institutions even. But of course,
when you have 10,000, 12,000 people, you're going
to have some thieves and would-be murderers and so
on. But we've had a good record so far. We've had
little disturbance. And we think a lot of it has
been due to the fact that we've had a lot of
dedicated people on the campus, not only staff
people, but a lot of students who have worked. For
instance, I remember one time that we got a threat
that the SDS was going to block. The cadet prayed
when one of the outstanding generals came here.
And they had special guards meet him at the airport
and all this kind of thing. But a group of 200
students came. And they had the names written
down. And they said, we'd like to take over this
responsibility of protecting this general and
the parade. And we refused to let them have this
because we didn't think it was fair to have a
student group policing the campus for an
emergency situation. So we managed to get some key
students posted around to keep us informed. And we
kept it from happening. And this was a small group
of about 12 students that we knew were members of
the SDS.
Do you think one reason maybe we did remain fairly
quiet during those days is that the students had
come to a place where maybe somebody cared about
what they did? I think that's right. I think most
A&M students have come to A&M because they felt
like it was a sort of a conservative type
institution that didn't believe in uprisings and
rebellions. There are ways of doing these things
by proper process and students here have had the
doors open enough for them to come in. We've
always felt like it's There were a goodly number of
the staff, teachers I'm talking about, faculty
people who were interested in these programs too,
and they assisted by even talking in classes from
time to time, a few minutes about things that make
an institution great. And I know our counselors
have worked on this, and the tactical officers did
in the cadet corps, and the military science
people teach this kind of thing. They're a pretty
good size staff too. But the administration has
generally been opposed to
mob action and violence and let the students know
this. And the former students believe in this too.
They believe in this attitude. Do you think maybe
you have mob action and violence only when the
students feel that they can no longer communicate
with the administration, and here where you have
an open door policy, where if you feel like you need
to tell somebody off, you can go do it. You may be
wrong in doing so, but the door is open to you. And I
would think since the administration has been
fairly open, and you can go see almost anyone on
this campus you want to see, that this has probably
averted a lot of problems. I think that's right,
because I can remember many groups that I went to
see Mr. Gilchrist when he was president. That's
when we had a lot of unrest back right after the war.
And they could always see him. They could always
see the dean of students. They could always see the
dean of agriculture. And if they wanted to have a
group action, they got the executive committee
together and let them point their own committee
and come in and talk to the executive committee.
And I know they had assemblies over in Assembly
Hall and in Guyon Hall, where people, where they
could express their opinions. And I think this has
been continuous.
I think, all in all, that this attitude, too, you
asked a question that I think that communications
help? Well, yes, it does. Now, of course, we felt
like that some of these people in the SDS were
planted here.
I know from time to time we found problems that
other universities had about the black people,
for instance. And when Mr. Rutter decided to admit
some black people, they did it very quietly and
notified these people to come at a certain time.
And they met in the registrar's office. And Mr.
Rutter had the registrar and the dean and the
student affairs people meet with them and explain
to them what the university would and could do. But
you people have to help. So they registered these
colored people before anybody else arrested to
avoid having them report to the line. So they were
arrested, no newspaper publicity, no radio, no
television pictures, anything. And these men got
along real well with no trouble. And when they ran
into some difficulty, they always reported to the
dean of students' office and reported what they'd
found. And then later we prevailed on the
university to open up a swimming pool and the
tennis courts and things like this for the black
people. When was this? Do you remember?
Must have been about 1959 or 60. I believe 60, but
I'm not absolutely positive. But I remember we had
one man from Florida. They were as happy as he could
be because he said, this is the greatest thing
that's happened for the black people, even though
they didn't have very many of them. And so far as I
know, we've never had any problem with the black
people at Texas A&M. Now, we had one or two groups
that wanted to demand, make certain demands on
certain books and certain literature and certain
classes, but Mr. Rutter and the library provided
these things. And I don't know how many teachers
they have, but they have some black people now
standing on the campus that are teaching. Now,
same thing happened with the foreign student
program. Back when I came in in 1945, there were
about 50 or maybe 75 foreign students, mostly from
Latin American countries. And this thing was
handled by two or three people. The registrar's
office did some of the work, and the The dean of the
college did some, and the rest of it was just done by
the placement office, mainly advice. And
so we found that these people weren't very well
accepted in a lot of cases by our own students,
mainly because of communications again. So
President Bolton, when he was president, I don't
even remember what year that was exactly, asked
our, the Dean of Students Office, to assume
responsibility for our advisement of all foreign
students and take over the whole program. And the
Student Affairs Office was bound with this thing
and so we had to find out all the rules and
regulations of the Immigration Service and the
State Department and how to contact these people
and we made associations with people in Houston
and San Antonio and El Paso and Washington, where
we could contact them and get these people. And we
even set up programs where we'd have an
orientation for these foreign groups when they'd
come in. And in spite of the fact that we've had some
dissidents, like when Castro was in first power,
some of the people from Cuba wanted to go down there
and take over. And we had to give them a lot of good
advice, the best we had, of course, to keep them
from getting into trouble. And they wanted to
bring Castro here, and we forbid it.
We had some foreign students that were opposed to
the policies of the United States government and
were very loud about this. And we had tried to keep
them in tow for peacemaking purposes. And we had
sessions with them. We organized a foreign
student club, and we met with them. One of our staff
always met with them and helped them arrange for
some of their financial support
and attended their special dinners and things of
this sort. And we finally got Mr. Rudder to select
Mr. Melcher as full-time foreign student
advisor, because this grew and grew until he was
full-time job and Melcher did this entirely for a
good number of years until about five or six years
ago when he took on some other responsibilities
for the dean of students and I understand that Mr.
Melcher is still the foreign student advisor but
has an assistant and this has helped not only the
foreign students themselves but it's helped A&M
students become acquainted with these people and
their heritage, heritages, and their customs,
and getting a better attitude about worldwide
situations. I think this has been good for the
university up to a point. Now, there's some things
that are wrong about it. We recognize those, too.
We have noted, and this has been done by a lot of
people, the university has tremendously
improved its housing program and its feeding
services and health services in the past 20 years.
Because the university, up until about 1960, had
an attitude that this was a poor man's school and
should be kept that way. And they just didn't want
to raise any fees. And they found out that it took
more money and inflation was running prices up all
the time. So the university finally decided that
the only way to get better food was to get more money
from the students. And the same thing about
housing. Buildings cost more, and we tried to
institute a program of maintenance and keep them
painted and cleaned and put down new equipment,
new furniture, carpeting and tile flooring and
whatever we could. And we think this has had a a good
effect on the students. A student can study and be
happier in an attractive, clean place than he can
in a makeshift proposition.
And they've even put in telephones and lounges and
spent a lot of money on this. Students don't
sometimes use them as much as we think they ought
to. I guess they still don't, I know they didn't
when I worked up here, because some of the lounges,
but we spent a lot of money on the Memorial Student
Center and put in a lot of good programs there and
A&M provided the facility for the best education a
guy can get at reasonable price. I checked not too
long ago for some people in Oklahoma who wanted to
find out about Texas A&M and I found that the cost
average cost per student detection and essential
cost is about half what it is in most institutions.
And a lot of institutions are as much as three and
four times as much.
So even though it's gone up considerably, it's
still not prohibitive. And if a student wants to
get work, he can get work to supplement his pay from
home. The university has modified a lot of its
attitude, and I don't know for sure what the
attitude is about discipline at this time, but we
believed in law and order all along through the
years, and students knew this. If they didn't
abide, they knew that they might get punished, and
we tried to make it swift and fair and told them. We
always told them why. I don't know whether this has
always been the policy of the university, but
while all the years I worked up here, we told them
why we did this. We didn't just call them and say
because we said so. We explained to them why we did
this. Then they had an appeal. We got the
administration to send them an appeal panel. As
far as I know, it's still in operation. And this is
good because if the dean or the commandant
unfairly punishes a young man, he can appeal to the
panel and he'll have nine or ten people listen. And
it's very unlikely that they're going to all be
unfair, at least the majority of them, we think
would be fair. And, of course, he always, even
after that, has an appeal to the president. And the
president has overruled the appeal panel a few
times, not often, but a few times.
I don't know whether I've covered the thing or not.
There's a good number of other things that I can
see. When I first was a student, the health
services were just sort of a first aid thing. When I
came back here to work in 1945, they didn't have
adequate staff or facility, and it was modified
quite a bit. Now they have a new fine hospital. I
guess, with complete staff. And I know the
students can have inexpensive treatment. A
student that doesn't ever go to the hospital pays a
fee, but this is what sick insurance amounts do. I
pay $230 a year for my wife and I. Last year, we got
back $40. But if either one of us goes to hospital,
we'd get it back. That's what it's for. It's a
protection. And it's very reasonable. We did the
same thing on publication. When I came to work at
A&M, they were having some great difficulties
with publication. They didn't really have a good
organization. One man ran it, and he reported it to
the president. I think the first man I knew was
Roland Bing, and he was just out of the Army, was an
A&M graduate, and had been a journal writer.
journalistic, I think he studied journalism when
he was a student, I'm not sure. But anyhow, he'd
done some newspaper work and did public relations
work in the Army. So he was hired as administrator
of the student publication program. He did it all
by himself. But when he left here, he started
having trouble because students still elected
the editors of all the publications. and
sometimes this was a popularity contest not
necessarily a matter of proficiency so the
university appointed a board to advise them and
sometimes the editors accused the board of being
set up by the administration to censor which
wasn't so because I served on that publication
board about five or six years, and we were never,
all the time I worked on it, told by the
administration to do anything to censor the
publication. Now, there are certain ground rules
that were set down for us to operate under, and we
didn't want the editor of The Bat, for instance, to
just go out and tear the university to pieces. One
or two editors took it on themselves to slaughter
the cadet corps. And we didn't think they had a
right to slaughter the cadets. So we, as a
publication board, told them, as long as you fare
and stick by the truth 100%, we can't tell you you
can't do this. But what are you trying to
accomplish? And they'd come around and see this.
We did it by advisement. One or two of them we had to
order not to do it, to leave out certain things. And
they'd come down and jump the president We didn't
think that it was quite cricket for the
publications to tear the president to pieces
because this paper goes all over the state. And
so far as I know, the publications, two
publications have been working better here than
any other institution I know of. I know I read the
paper about all the trouble they have over at
Austin, and it's constant. Rice, not a very big
institution, they have trouble. University of
Houston. Harvard even had trouble with their
lampoon and some other publications. A&M hadn't
had that kind of trouble.
Now, one other thing that I
observed, A&M has spent a lot of time working with
all state and federal agencies to get facilities
for proper research, and we've gotten money and
equipment from some of these firms and
institutions, and I think ANM made real good
progress with its program. Sometimes I hear
various people in the faculty say we're spending
too much on research, and I don't know whether it's
true or not, but we need research, and it's
expensive, But everything about the university
expansion, and if I had any complaint to make now
that I didn't make in 1945, is that the people have
become more wasteful. The university people,
when I came in in 45, were penurious, really. Had to
be, because they didn't have the money. And they
used pieces of paper, scrap paper, that normally
you throw in the trash. And I see people now using
letterhead stationery to write notes and pencil
notes on and paper, I mean, telephone numbers and
things. To me, this is a waste. And I see people
making trips just for the trip purpose, not to
benefit the university. Now, this didn't happen
20 years ago. But this has been a change in all
government agencies. People travel a whole lot.
People become wasteful, and
you have an assistant, and then an assistant to the
assistant. You need some of these people, but a lot
of them you don't need. And this has become big
business, really. So I'm afraid sometimes that
when an institution like A&M over expands, I don't
know what the student enrollment was last year,
17,000? It's been up as high as 18, I think. That's
pretty big. That's a lot of people, and you just
don't have the facilities to take care of them. At
least you can't take care of them anymore. No,
Cooper says it'll probably be 22,000 next year.
That's right. Now, where are you going to put them?
You don't have any supervision on them when they
live downtown. They may be on marijuana or
morphine or codeine or something. You don't know
what they're doing. They may be prostituting,
they may be stealing, they could be doing a lot of
things. You can't say they're not doing that on the
campus, because I saw all those things done when I
was a student. Not very many of them, and a lot of
them were picked up and talked to, and some of them
were punished, some of them were sent home. But you
don't even see them anymore. And the teacher has so
many classes and so many students, a lot of times he
just knows them by numbers. And I taught school a
long time. I knew my students. I knew a lot about
their families. This is good because I knew why he
revolted when I wanted to make a B, when he wanted to
make a D. I knew his background. Well, you can't do
that in a big institution. And this makes it cost a
lot. American
people have become very fluid and wasteful we're
wasting lots of good resources we're wasting
lives we're wasting paper and trees concrete and
other things so this is the thing we've got to keep
in mind when we talk about students because they
they they see these things happening back in the
public school back in the city government back at
home I just got back from San Antonio, and my
grandson, 18-year-old high school kid, got one
year in high school. He wants to go to A&M,
incidentally. He wants to play football. He's a
pretty good athlete, but he wants a car. So his
father told him, Robert, if you can make enough
money this summer to buy a car, fine, but I'm not
going to make any note for you. Now, a lot of his
friends had new cars. Papa bought it for Well, he
doesn't need a car. It's good to have, but he
doesn't really need it. He could ride the school
bus from his front door, well, one block up to the
school back, but he wants to go in his own car. This
is expensive. Well, if you go staying in, he'll
demand more than I demanded when I was a student,
and more than his father did when he was a student
here. So this is a trend in America.
But I think all in all, I'm sorry I don't know
anything much about Williams. I know him, I've
seen him, met him twice. He wouldn't know me if he'd
see me today. I knew Kodas by reputation only when
he was at Arkansas and East Texas. He comes with
good reputation, so he ought to be a good dean of
students. give us any more about General Rudder as
president? Any personal remembrances that you
have? Yeah, I thought Mr. Rudder was an
outstanding man. He certainly wasn't what you'd
normally call an educator, because in the first
place, he didn't have a whole lot of education
himself, except what he made, his own
self-education. But he understood how to find out
about problems, and he went about it and found out.
Sometimes he was pretty ruthless and
cold-blooded about it, but he found out what the
problems were at A&M. And then he set about trying
to remedy the problems, check if he needed
facilities. He knew where he'd go and get them. And
he selected people like Dr. Settle, for instance.
I know one of the reasons he brought Dr. Settle here
is because he had good contact with the federal
government. And Settle was a good research man,
had this reputation. So he hired Suttle and turned
him loose. And Suttle went after the state in
Washington quite a bit. And not only in
Washington, but everywhere. He tried to pick
people that had some organizational ability and
guts enough to do what they thought was right and
would have a certain amount of allegiance to the
university and to him. in my opinion, bad
selections, but every leader's got to do some bad
selections. I thought once or twice that he picked
too many ex-military people just because they
were military to be staff people. But most of them
turned out to be real good people, real proficient
and dedicated to A&M. Some of them are still here.
And a lot of the non-military believers detested
him for this, which wasn't fair. They were just
biased and they were super critical. But he didn't
matter with the education part of it. He let the
deans do this because that's what they're hard to
do anyhow. He went about raising money and
organizing and setting up procedures and
systems. And if he thought he could go to
Washington and talk to somebody up there and get
some help, he did it. If he wanted to go to Atlanta,
Georgia and meet some people that were around him,
he got a man set up there in the, what is that office
where you go out and beg for money? The development
office? The development office. He said, I have a
good system there, and he helps them. When old
Walker wants to go to see Sid Cowell, Sid Cowell got
million dollars he wants to give to the
university, and with a little drag on his feet,
rather go see him. Just get in his plane or car and
drive down and see him. He didn't hesitate to call
Tiger Teague or somebody else in Washington, some
general that he knew up there, or somebody in
California. And I thought he was fair, fair to the
student, fair to the staff. He got better pay for
them. tried to improve the facilities. He didn't
hesitate. He said, sure, it's a poor man's school,
but we can't be paupers. We've got to build better
places to live. And he set up a good system for
building better buildings. And they had
discarded the idea of air conditioning these old
buildings. And Rutter said, I'm not going to take
that. And he pointed to Dean Benson and said, Dean,
I want you to get with some experts. Bible, Hollis
Bible, for instance. Bring him up here and make a
survey. And then if you all tell me that it can't be
done, I'll buy it. But in two years' time, he had all
the old bellies air conditioned. Because he just
didn't take no. Now, I didn't think he could do it
either. But it worked out real good. He got a lot of
prestige for A&M because he'd go and speak for A&M
wherever he went.
I think people generally here and away from the
university had a great deal of respect for Earl
Rudder. And I think it would be a long time before
they got a man to replace him. He didn't have a
doctor's degree and all that, but he was a smart
cookie. He knew people pretty well, and he knew how
to get things done, and he worked hard. In fact, I
wouldn't be surprised if he did. He worked too hard
and didn't take care of his health like he should
have. And died at a reasonably young age. And I
think if he'd have stayed here another 10 years
until his retirement time, it wouldn't have been
quite 10 years, but I think he would have done
terrific things for A&M. Maybe somebody else can,
too. Nobody's indispensable, but I thought he was
real, real excellent for Texas A&M. Now, at the
University of Texas, he probably wouldn't have
been worth anything. But he was an ex-Aggie, and
this helped him. And he had the respect of the
military people in the United States because he'd
been a general. Was a colonel in combat, a
lieutenant colonel in combat.
And they proved that he could organize from
scratch to confounded, compounded, fighting in
it. He did it. This helped him. And then he took that
land office when he was in trouble, bailed it out.
And this balance had been difficult. I have a
question. I just wondered, do you believe he ever
had any political aspirations? I've heard it
rumored that he might have liked to run for office.
Yes, in fact, I heard quite often when he first came
here that he came here with the hope that he would
eventually jump to be governor of Texas. I heard
this. And then I also heard once or twice that he had
some aspirations about being a federal
politician. Possibly running for the Senate?
Yes. But I sort of doubt this because I've talked to
him many times. In fact, I asked him about it. Point
blank, did you have any political aspirations?
Now, some people here still believe that he did. In
fact, I talked to a man yesterday that said he
believed that Ernie Rudder came here with that in
mind. And he had this from some people in Austin. I
said, well, they were just guessing, I'll bet you.
Now, maybe he did. I don't know. But if he did, he
should have dragged his feet a long time. Yeah, it
is interesting. I just wonder whether that was a
rumor or maybe he ever, he really did want to run for
office. I know he did a very good job when he was in
the land office. Yes. And built a fairly healthy
respect. Well, he was elected one time, wasn't he?
Yes, he was. He was appointed to take a vacation,
then he was elected. Well, he might have been, I
don't know, but he told me that he didn't have any
ambition to be governor of Texas or a senator. No,
you can't tell. I don't know. Now, he was mayor of
Brady, wasn't he? Gee, I think so. I think so. Which
nothing really politically. No, no, no. It's not.
I know that. It's just interesting. I'm wondering
whether his career was cut short here or was cut
short for a bigger. He had bigger things in mind. I
really believe the reason... I got awful upset at
Mr. Rutter back at the time Com left here, because
as I told you yesterday, Mr. Rutter had been to A&M
when they didn't have any student services.
Everything was done by the Commandant's Office.
And then further, he was an athlete, and athletes
didn't do a lot of things that regular cadets did.
They lived a sort of secluded life, They always
did, even back when I was in school. So when he came
here, he come left, and Mr. Rutter told me that he
believed he didn't see any sense in that
organization. He said, go wipe it out. And I said,
sir, you wipe it out, and you're going to see how
fast A&M folds up. Because the commandant has
positive orders from the military that he cannot
keep A&M's dirty linen clean. Now, I don't like to
use dirty linen because everything that you do in a
student life, people associate with violence and
crime. But I'd say 90% of the things that student
personnel service people do don't have anything
to do with rules and regulations and violations.
So he said, well, what do you do? And I told him. I
wrote out a whole page of things and outlined for
him what to do. He said, draw me a diagram of what
ought to be. And just behind he, so he finally asked
me, if we make you dean, what'd you do? And I said,
no, I don't want to be the dean. And he asked me why.
He smiled and said, well, that to me sounds silly,
but I'll buy that. So two days later, he called back
and said, I'll change my mind. I've talked to some
other people, and I think we're going to keep some
semblance, and I'd like to have you stay on as the
director of student personnel services. Not a
dean, but a director. And the reason was I had told
him that if I take it on and do it like I thought it
ought to be, there are about seven or eight people
that I'd have to fire for inefficiency, but they
were all good friends of mine, and I wasn't going to
fire them because I didn't hire them. So he got mad
at me, said, he said, trouble is you don't have gut
enough to do it. I said, hell, I don't. I got gut
enough to do it. I'm just not going to do it. I don't
believe in operating like that. So I got real mad at
him. And I went back to see him later, and he laughed
and said, you got mad, didn't you? And I said, yeah,
I got mad, sure.
I didn't like your attitude. So he said, I didn't
like yours either. But anyhow, we got it all
settled. And he told me just a short while, four
hours ahead. In fact, I had a heart attack. And he
came down to the hospital to see me. And he came over
and put his hand on my shoulder and said, don't
worry about your job. We'll take care of it if I have
to do it myself until you get back. And when I got
ready to retire, he came over. and talked to me a
long time about the Student Life Program. And he
said he'd changed his mind about a lot of things at
A&M since he'd been working here. And one of the
things was that he knew that we needed to have good
planning and good leadership in the Student Life
Program at Texas A&M, just as much so as we did in the
dean's office in veterinary college and
architecture and so on. And he saw a lot of things
that needed to be done, and he said, I'm going to
keep on. I'm going to do it. I don't know when, but
we're going to do it. And he changed up some of the
things in the commandant's office that added some
strength to the cadet corps. I'm
forgetting what year. But anyhow, when he made the
commandant not a civilian, But an army officer,
what year was that? You know, 1959,
I guess. Yeah, 1959.
And he just removed the comrade who was a reserve
officer on duty
and moved him and his staff out.
Colonel Baker came here and he said, you are the
commandant.
And you'll handle the, you'll handle everything
except the discipline, but we're not going to take
all that discipline away from the commandant, but
we're not going to expect you to suspend kids for
beating others, for getting drunk and stealing
and things of this sort. But if you find, if you find
ordinary people mist him in like dirty shoes and
filthy room and tearing up the dining hall, you can
give them punishment, military punishment. But
if you have to punish him for crime, then this will
be done by the dean. So Dean Hannigan understood
that when he was here. When he first came, he
understood that's going to be part of his
responsibility. And he never did buckle from it.
And
so this made This made a better cadet corps, but the
only thing that was bad about it, they took all the
attack officers out. They didn't do it all at one
time, but they piecemeal and so forth. I know they
don't even have a tactical officer down there now.
I think they need some. They got one man, I believe,
and I can't even think of his name. I've talked to
him once or twice. He's a young man, and he's doing
advisement, but one man's not enough to advise...
three thousand cadets.
Now he may, the colonel over there may have it
broken down and some of his officers doing some of
this advisement too. If they want to do this they
could do it. And this, I think this is real good
actually. I saw this done at some military units I
was in Once or twice I was castigated because they
said, we want you to teach them to fight and that's
all. I said, no, it's more than that. I want them to
be good citizens. And they've got to have some
confidence in me as a commander if I'm going to tell
them to go get them. When I send them out there to get
shot at, I want them to have guts enough and
confidence enough in me to know that I'm going to do
what I can to help them. And the only way I'm going to
do this is to talk to them about God and a few things
that are important. I didn't hesitate to talk
about it. I didn't infuse profanity with them,
things like that. So I don't believe that you have
to do it at Texas A&M either.
Can you think of anything else you'd like to
comment on? Covered a lot of ground. No, I think A&M
made lots of progress.
I saw a lot of things wrong with it while I worked
here, and I know you can't perfect everything. No.
You've got certain weaknesses in certain
positions of people, and all your students are not
ambitious all the time. A lot of them are not
ambitious at all, and this handicaps you.